---
layout: post
title: "AI and public perception"
categories: misc
---

# ON AI

I had an exchange of words with a few folks from my dept today on the topic of AI. I have to say that AI's is very misunderstood. Its like a space potato that could be fit to anything. It went something like this. First dev says AI is coming to IT and infrastructure and it will be great, following that I contend that AI is different from IT and cannot be merged so easily. dev1 - "Ofcourse it can, I can use my phone to scale up a kubernetes cluster , isnt that AI" ; me - "Scaling up kubernetes is not AI its mannual intervention, speech to text engine that converts your voice to commands is the AI component here and that is not related to infrastructure"; Dev2 - "Well when I think about AI then it means automation to me. First ML came and then AI is used to automate processes"; me - "automation is not AI , you dont need prediction for automating computer processes. AI means using some formula that has been trained using data for a specific classification or regression problem" dev2 - "Well when most people think of AI it means automation for them, you can continue believing what you think is right"; me - "this is a fact! not belief"

Its incredible how the media message has conveyed an incorrect meaning of AI. ML is a subfield of AI and AI as a field of research has been since 1960s but ML as a field has only grown since 1990s. While the dual trends of AI and automation might be rocking our current innovation space its certainly true that AI is only a component in the broader scope of automation and there are a lot more business processes that do not need AI to be automated. 

Enterprises these days are wanting to do something called AI which can have two meanings. First is trying out a new piece of software that enables people to test statistical learning models in a point and click way that takes away the complexity from the developer who is tasked with working on a prediction model and generate a output like a heat map or a Prediction Modelling Markup Language (PMML). Second is to have a Dev house which would allow for upcoming and incubating technologies to be installed and managed by the Developers and testing an idea would require the developers to code thier way out. With a lot of libraries available for free these days coding the model itself is not the challenge but integrating them with a workflow that could give a business Outcome is the challenge.
